# KPI Export

KPI Export is emnos' on-demand data extraction module. The output is a file with KPIs in a table that should be downloaded to your computer.
When to use KPI Export?
KPI Export is meant to help you analyze performance on granular levels that you cannot find in your datastories (like EAN level) or on adhoc product, store and time aggregates (like a specific weekend or day).
KPI Export is also great if you need to efficiently extract significant amounts of data to feed some internal reporting tool.
How to access KPI Export?
KPI Export is accessible from the navigation pane of the emnos platform, on the left side of the screen.
How to use KPI Export?
To launch a KPI Export, you need to set up parameters for your request on 4 dimensions (time period, product, store, customer) and select the KPIs you wish to analyze.
What functionalities does KPI Export have?
Re-load parameters from a previous KPI Export as a base for your new request
Name and tagg your KPI Export
Select the time period to analyze. It will have one of the following formats:
single time period
single time period split by days, weeks or month
two time periods compared
Select as many KPIs as you need
Select the product universe to analyze (e.g., Soft Drinks)
Set up analysis levels for your product universe (e.g., split by Brand)
Select the store universe to analyze (e.g., all stores)
Set up analysis levels for your store universe (e.g., split by Region)
Select the customer universe to analyze (e.g., Loyalty Program Members)
Choose the granularity of your output between three options:
only show the most granular combination of all analysis levels (e.g., each Soft Drink Brand in each Region)
only show the total universe and the individual analysis levels (e.g., Soft Drinks in all stores + each Soft Drink Brand in all stores + Soft Drinks in each Region)
show both of the above
Set up a recurrence for your KPI Export (none, weekly, monthly)
Set up an e-mail notification to know when your KPI Export is ready to download
Change the output file format from xls to csv or txt
Share the output with other users of the emnos platform that are part of your organization

[Read more](https://help.emnos.com/help/overview)