# Category weekly check (FOOD)

Category weekly check
 is a pre-calculated datastory that enables commercial teams to know at a glance the weekly performance of their category. It is 
updated every week
.
When to use Category weekly check
Category weekly check is meant to quickly answer performance questions on recent weeks. It's a fairly simple datastory that focuses on critical performance KPIs and is automatically updated with the freshest data available.
It is also great to compare the dynamics of several brands or brand types.
How to access Category weekly check
The datastory can be accessed through the navigation pane on the left side of the screen in the "Category performance" topic.
How to use Category weekly check
The Category weekly check datastory has 3 pages you can navigate using buttons at the top of your screen:
"vs last year" page
 enables you to assess the weekly performance of one product group by comparings its performance this year to the same weeks of the previous year 
"vs competition" pag
e
 enables you to assess the weekly performance of one product group by comparing its performance to competing product groups' performance on the same weeks
"online" page
 enables you to assess the weekly performance of the online channel and know its weight in your category's sales and customer base
Each page of the datastory has filters on the right side to help you display what is relevant for your analysis:
Input set
, to choose the overall product universe of your analysis. The product attributes enabled for drill down will change depending on the input set chosen.
Attribute 01
, first level of product drill down, usually "Subcategory"
Attribute 02
, second level of product drill down, usually "Brand type"
Attribute 03
, third level of product drill down, usually "Brand"
The filters are local, they only impact the datastory page they are displayed on. If you change page within the datastory, then the filters need to be set up again. 
The store universe is fixed and has no drill down option. 
The product attributes and the store universe are detailed in boxes right below the datastory's navigation buttons.
Metrics
Datastory page
KPI name
Considerations for this datastory
vs last year, vs competition
Sales (all customers)
none
vs last year, vs competition
Volume (all customers)
none
vs last year, vs competition
Units (all customers)
none
vs last year, vs competition
Customers
none
vs last year, vs competition
Customers penetration total stores
none
vs last year, vs competition
Share of promo sales (all customers)
none
vs last year, vs competition
Share of promo volume (all customers)
none
vs last year, vs competition
Share of promo units (all customers)
none
vs last year, vs competition
Promo sales (all customers)
none
vs last year, vs competition
Promo volume (all customers)
none
vs last year, vs competition
Promo units (all customers)
none
Online
Online sales (all customers)
none
Online
Online customers
none
Online
Online channel share of sales (all customers)
Online sales / All channels sales
Online
Online channel share of customers
Online customers / All channels customers
Introduction video for Category weekly check
Your browser does not support HTML5 video.

[Read more](https://help.emnos.com/help/category-weekly-check)