# Customer insights

Customer insights
 is emnos' on-demand customers' shopping behavior analysis module. The outputs are reports that can be viewed in the emnos platform.
When to use Customer insights
All emnos Customer insights are use case specific and should be used to answer the following questions:
Origin of sales
 = Figure out how much of your sales growth is positive for the category and how much is cannibalization. Or the reverse, figure out how much of your sales decrease is negative for the category.
Origin of customers
 = Understand how much of your customer base is renewed and where customers come from and go to.
Cross-purchase
 = Identify what portion of your customers are cross-purchasing 3 product groups, 2 product groups, or are exclusive to 1 product group
Basket content
 = Know how many units of your product are bought in one single basket, to optimize promo offers and packaging format 
How to access Customer insights
Customer insight is accessible from the navigation pane of the emnos platform, on the left side of the screen.
How to use Customer insights
To launch a Customer insight
, you need to select "New request" in the navigation pane and click on "Start request" in the card of the insight type you need. 
The Customer insights ordering wizard will open. Follow directions to set up parameters for your request. All Customer insights need parameters set up on the same 4 dimensions (time period, product, store, customer) but each insight type has specificities. Please check each insight type's Help Center article for more details.
To retrieve a previously launched Customer insight
, select "My customer insights" in the navigation pane. The Customer insights library will open. It displays all requests that you launched yourself, as well as the requests that have been shared with you by other users of the platform. The Customer insights library can be filtered by:
insight type
tags attached to requests
requests creation date (yesterday, last week, last month)
sharing status of requests (shared with me, owned by me)
searched for a specific request name
What functionalities does Customer insights have
Re-use parameters from a previous Customer insight of the same type as a base for your new request
Name your Customer insight
Tag your Customer insight to identify it easily in the "My customer insights" library. For example, you can add a project name tag to all requests that are launched for a specific project and, later on, filter the library based on this tag to display only requests relevant for the project.
Share the output with other users of the emnos platform that are part of your organization

[Read more](https://help.emnos.com/help/customer-insights-customer-insights)