# Cross-purchase

Cross-purchase 
is an on-demand customer insight that enables commercial teams to understand how much of your products' or brand's customer base is exclusive to your offerings or is also purchasing other products.
When to use Cross-purchase
Cross-purchase is used to 
measure the number of exclusive and mixing customers 
of a product or brand. It will also tell you
 
how much each customer group is 
spending 
on your product and the other offerings. And it will give you the 
segmentation profile
 of each customer group, so you can identify what caracterizes exclusive customers and mixing customers.
It is particularly interesting for 
understanding if products are competing for the same customers
. If the portion of cross-purchasing customers is high, then the products are in competition because they are bought by the same customers. 
Cross-purchase is also great to 
a
nalyze the loyalty of customers to a brand accross several sub-categories
. The insight will show what portion of your customers purchase the brand in each sub-category. For example, 20% of Colgate customers buy Colgate toothbrush and Colgate toothpaste and Colgate mouthwash.
How to access Cross-purchase
To create a new Cross-purchase insight
In the "Customer insights" topic of your navigation pane, on the left side of the screen, select "New request" and then click on "Start request" in the "Cross-purchase" card.
To view an existing Cross-purchase insight
In the "Customer insights" topic of your navigation pane, on the left side of the screen, select "My customer insights" and then use the "Insight type" filter to only display Cross-purchase insights in your library. You can then search for the specific insight you need.
How to request Cross-purchase
In Cross-purchase, the emnos platform will analyze if customers buy all 3 (or 2) product groups you set up or just some of them. The customers will then be divided into groups depending on their purchasing behavior and each group will be described using a customer segmentation of your choosing.
The platform will also compute the sales and units spent by each customer group on each product group.
To launch a Cross-purchase, you need to set up parameters for 4 dimensions in the ordering wizard that opens when you click "Start request". All steps are mandatory, unless "optional" is mentioned:
Select a time period
Select the 1st product group to analyze (e.g., the brand Coca-cola) and name it
Select the 2nd product group to analyze (e.g., the brand Pepsi-Cola) and name it
optional - 
Select the 3rd product group to analyze (e.g., the private label Cola) and name it
optional
 - Select the store universe to analyze (e.g., Supermarkets). Per default, all stores are included
optional
 - Select the customer universe to analyze (e.g., Frequent buyers). Per default, all Loyalty Program members are included
Select a "split by" for your customers i.e. select 1 segmentation to describe the customer profile
optional
 - Select the promotion filter to consider (e.g.; Promotional transactions excluded). Per default, all transactions are included
How to read Cross-purchase
Cross-purchase has 3 pages you can navigate using buttons at the top of your screen:
"Customers" page
 provides insights into the distribution of customers based on their cross-purchasing behavior across the three selected product groups. It details the number of customers exclusively purchasing one product group versus those buying multiple groups. Additionally, it shows how these customer groups are segmented according to your selected customer split by. 
 
"Sales" page
 mirrors the structure of the Customers page but focuses on sales distribution. It reveals the percentage of total sales attributed to Exclusive customers and Mixers, along with their specific spending on each product group. Furthermore, it breaks down sales distribution within each customer group based on your chosen segmentation.
"Units" page
 follows the same format as the Customers page but emphasizes units distribution. It indicates the percentage of total units sold to Exclusive customers and Mixers, detailing their exact unit purchases for each product group. Additionally, it illustrates how units are distributed within each customer group across the customer segmentation you selected.
The parameters used for all dimensions can be accessed by clicking a dedicated button at the top of the page, called "See selected paramterers":
Metrics
Insight page
KPI name
Considerations for this insight
Customers
Customers distribution by cross-purchase behavior
Number of customers having the described purchasing behavior / Total number of customers
Customers
Customers
Customers
Customers segment distribution (% based on customers)
Number of customers that are part of the described customer segment / Total number of customers
Customers
Significance (the KPI behind is an index)
Index = weight of the customer segment in the customer group / weight of the customer segment in the benchmark*100
Customers
Benchmark
All customers of the 3 (or 2) product groups
Sales
Sales distribution by cross-purchase behavior
Sales of customers having the described purchasing behavior / Total sales
Sales
Sales
Sales
Customers segment distribution (% based on sales)
Sales of customers that are part of the described customer segment / Total sales
Sales
Significance (the KPI behind is an index)
Index = weight of the customer segment in the customer group sales / weight of the customer segment in the benchmark sales*100
Sales
Benchmark
All sales of the 3 (or 2) product groups
Units
Units distribution by cross-purchase behavior
Units of customers having the described purchasing behavior / Total units
Units
Units
Units
Customers segment distribution (% based on units)
Units of customers that are part of the described customer segment / Total units
Units
Significance (the KPI behind is an index)
Index = weight of the customer segment in the customer group units / weight of the customer segment in the benchmark units*100
Units
Benchmark
All units of the 3 (or 2) product groups
Introduction videos for Cross-purchase
Requesting Cross-purchase
Your browser does not support HTML5 video.
Reading Cross-purchase
Your browser does not support HTML5 video.

[Read more](https://help.emnos.com/help/cross-purchase)