# Standard export

Standard export
 is an interface in the emnos platform for users to access and download pre-configured, standard data sets in one click. It provides different types of data sets based on each organization's license.
When to use Standard export
Use the Standard export if you:
Need operational data out of the platform for reporting, analysis in Excel, or sharing with your team.
Want a simple "download" button to get the data without having to ask for help or learn a new technical tool.
This is a 
standardized tool
 used by multiple supplier partners. To maintain consistency across all users, emnos doesn't customize the Standard export datasets. 
If you prefer getting data on specific dimension aggregates and using custom attributes, then KPI export is the feature you need.
What data Standard export provides
Currently, Standard export provides 4 types of data sets to match different use cases and license packages:
Brand benchmark monthly
, to analyze and compare the performance of each brand in your category
My performance monthly
, to analyze the performance of your own products at EAN level
Essential export  (monthly or weekly)
, to analyze the performance of all products in your category at EAN level
Brand benchmark
monthly
My performance
monthly
Essential export
monthly
Essential export
weekly
Recurrence
Once a month
Weekly
Metrics
Sales, Units, Volume
Promo Sales, Promo Units, Promo Volume
Baskets
Number of Selling Stores
Share of Sales, share of volume, share of units
For each KPI:
last full month
same month last year
change VS last year (%)
Sales, Units, Volume
Promo Sales, Promo Units, Promo Volume
Baskets
Number of Selling Stores
Period
Last full calendar month
Last full calendar month, split by day
Last 2 weeks, split by day
Product
All categories included in your license, analyzed at
Category x Brand level
Your own brands, analyzed at Category x Brand x EAN level
All categories included in your license, analyzed at Category x Brand x EAN level
Sales channel
All sales channels aggregated
One file for all transactions (offline + e-commerce)
One file for e-commerce only
Historical data
Not provided
27 month history 
(provided on 1st update)
How to use Standard export
Log-in to the emnos platform
Select “Standard export” in the left-side navigation panel, then select “Essential export”
Download the relevant Excel file from the list using the download button 
4. (optional) check parameters of the query by selecting the “See parameters” button. This will open a new tab in your browser. Parameters can be checked but not changed.
How to use video
Your browser does not support HTML5 video.

[Read more](https://help.emnos.com/help/standard-export)